# DelhiWeatherForecasting
 
SUMMARY:

The weather of a place represents the state of the atmospheric environment over a brief period of time. Integrated weather conditions over several years is generally referred to as climate. Climatic change is one of the most important issues of present times. Unlike the greenhouse gases, which have a predominantly warming effect, atmospheric aerosols could either warm or cool the atmosphere depending upon the size, distribution and optical properties. Of all the climatic elements, temperature plays a major role in detecting climatic change brought about by urbanization and industrialization.


This project is undertaken to develop area specific weather forecasting models based on time series data for New Delhi, India. The main objective is to develop a univariate model for predicting the daily mean temperature. The time series data was taken out from Kaggle, whereas the data itself was originally extracted using the WUnderground API. This dataset provides data from 1st January 2013 to 24th April 2017 in the city of Delhi, India. It contains 4 features such as temperature, humidity, wind speed, and mean atmospheric pressure. The methodologies adopted to predict mean temperature were Holt-Winter’s exponential smoothing model, an auto ARIMA model, a seasonal ARIMA(1,1,1)(1,1,1) model, a quadratic regression model, and a two-level quadratic regression model with residuals. Naïve forecast is used as the baseline model. We Divided the mean temperature time series into training and validation sets for model accuracy testing, i.e The dates between 2013-01-01 to 2016-12-31 is considered as the training set with 1461 training records, and the dates between 2017-01-01 to 2017-04-24 as the validation set with 114 testing records.

After rigorous evaluation, the study of our forecast models revealed that the ARIMA (1,1,1)(1,1,1) has the best model for forecasting New Delhi weather with its fitted values having the lowest RMSE (1.623) and MAPE (5.417) when compared to the Delhi mean temperature time series. Among all the models, we found that the Quadratic trend model has the highest values of RMSE (7.299) and MAPE (31.457), which is more than 5 times the error value as the ARIMA(1,1,1)(1,1,1) model. In spite of the limitations imposed by the unpredictability of the dataset, we recommend the ARIMA (1,1,1)(1,1,1) model for future mean temperature forecasts for the city of New Delhi.
